Based on the image you provided, the current base looks very "CG" (computer-generated). It suffers from uniformity (the pattern repeats too perfectly), sharp edges, and incorrect material physics (the top looks like aluminum, not stone).

Here is a breakdown of how to move from your current result to a photorealistic granite base in Three.js.

1. Fix the Material Physics (The "Metal" Problem)

Your current top surface looks like metal. This is a common mistake when setting up PBR materials.

The Issue: Stone is a "dielectric" material, not a metal.

The Fix: Set metalness: 0.0.

The Reflection: Polish comes from roughness. For polished granite, set roughness to a very low value (e.g., 0.05 to 0.1).

The Depth: Granite has "subsurface" visual depth. If it looks too flat, your base color map might be too solid.

code
JavaScript
download
content_copy
expand_less
const polishedGranite = new THREE.MeshStandardMaterial({
    map: graniteColorTexture, 
    roughness: 0.1, // Very shiny
    metalness: 0.0, // Stone is NOT metal
    envMapIntensity: 1.0 // Needs to reflect the world
});
2. The "Rock Pitch" Texture needs Chaos (Normal Maps vs Displacement)

The side of your base currently looks like a geometric, low-poly wave pattern. Real rock pitch is chaotic, granular, and sharp.

Avoid Low-Poly Displacement: Your current mesh density looks too low for the displacement map you are using, resulting in that "stretched polygon" look.

Use a Normal Map instead: For web performance and better visuals, stop using geometry displacement for the fine details. Use a high-quality Normal Map scanned from real rock. This simulates lighting hitting bumps without needing millions of polygons.

Triplanar Mapping: Notice how the texture on the short side of your block looks compressed compared to the long side? You need to adjust your UV wrapping or use a Triplanar mapping shader so the rock texture size is consistent on all sides.

3. The "Razor Edge" Problem

In your image, the corner where the top meets the side is a perfect, razor-sharp 90-degree angle. In reality, this is impossible.

The Bevel: Even a "sharp" granite block has a tiny bevel or chamfer. This catches a specific line of light (a specular highlight) that tells the human eye "this is a solid object."

The Solution: Use THREE.RoundedBoxGeometry with a very small radius, or add a bevel modifier in your modeling software (Blender) before exporting.

4. Create a "Polished Margin" (Crucial for Realism)

Look at the reference photo in your first message. You will see the rough rock doesn't go all the way to the edge. There is usually a 1.5-inch smooth strip (polished margin) framing the rough face.

How to fake this in Three.js:
You need a specific texture mask.

Top Face: Polished Material.

Side Faces: Use a texture that has a smooth border around the edges and the rock texture in the center.

The "Lip": The rock pitch should actually be slightly thicker than the polished margin.

5. Lighting: The HDRI (Environment Map)

Polished granite is essentially a mirror. If your Three.js scene has a black background, the granite will look flat and fake because it has nothing to reflect.

You must use an HDRI environment map.

code
JavaScript
download
content_copy
expand_less
import { RGBELoader } from 'three/examples/jsm/loaders/RGBELoader.js';

new RGBELoader().load('texture/studio_small_09_1k.hdr', function (texture) {
    texture.mapping = THREE.EquirectangularReflectionMapping;
    scene.environment = texture; // This creates the reflections
});
Summary of Changes Required
Feature	Your Image	Photorealistic Goal
Geometry	Low poly, stretched waves	High detail Normal Map + Beveled Edges
Color	Solid Grey / Black	Speckled Granite Texture (Noise)
Material	Looks Metallic (metalness: 1?)	Dielectric (metalness: 0, roughness: 0.1)
Edges	Infinite Sharpness	Rounded or Chamfered
Lighting	Flat / Dark	HDRI Reflections (Environment Map)