This version highlights a very specific technical issue that is breaking the realism: UV Mapping (Texture Stretching).

Here is a breakdown of the specific problems visible in this render and how to fix them in your workflow or Three.js code.

1. The Critical Issue: Texture Stretching (UVs)

Look at the curved top edge of the headstone and the sides of the base.

The Problem: The granite texture looks like smeared streaks. This happens when the texture is projected from the front, so the sides don't get enough "pixel space."

The Solution: You need to fix the UV Map.

If you are using Blender/Maya/3D Software: You must select the side faces and "Unwrap" them again. In Blender, select the object, go to Edit Mode, select all, and try "Smart UV Project". This will ensure the sides get a square grid of the texture, not stretched lines.

If you are generating geometry in Three.js: You need to calculate UVs correctly. If you can't change the geometry, you might need to use Triplanar Mapping (a shader technique that projects textures from all 3 sides), though fixing the model is much better for performance.

2. The Base Top vs. Front

The Problem: The top surface of the base (the "step") looks almost white/grey and low resolution, while the front face of the base is dark blue granite. It looks like two different materials or a lighting error.

The Solution:

Check your material assignment. The top face should use the exact same material and texture scaling as the front face.

If it is the same material, the UVs on the top face are likely scaled too huge (zoomed in too far), making it look blurry and washed out.

3. Material "Polish" (It still looks dry)

The stone surface currently looks like dry concrete. Real "Blue Pearl" granite is sealed and highly polished; it should look almost wet or glass-like.

Update your Material Code to this:

code
JavaScript
download
content_copy
expand_less
const polishedGranite = new THREE.MeshPhysicalMaterial({
    map: textureLoader.load('granite_diffuse.jpg'),
    
    // Color correction: Granite is usually darker/richer
    color: 0xaaaaaa, 
    
    // Polish settings
    roughness: 0.2,           // Very smooth
    metalness: 0.1,           // Stone is not metal
    
    // The "Glassy" layer on top
    clearcoat: 1.0,           // Max gloss coating
    clearcoatRoughness: 0.1,  // The coating is perfect
    
    // Environment reflections are mandatory for this to work!
    envMapIntensity: 1.5 
});
4. Lighting Direction

The Problem: The face of the tombstone is in shadow or poorly lit, while the top of the base is blown out with brightness.

The Solution: Adjust your lighting setup. A standard "3-point lighting" setup works best here:

Key Light: Shine it at a 45-degree angle towards the front text.

Fill Light: Softer light from the opposite side to fill shadows.

Environment Map (HDRI): This is the most important part. Without an HDRI, the gold and polished stone will look fake.

Summary of Next Steps

Go back to your 3D modeler and fix the UV Unwrapping on the top curve and sides. The texture must look like square grains, not long streaks.

Match the base texture: Ensure the top of the base matches the darkness of the rest of the stone.

Add clearcoat: 1.0 to your material in Three.js.